
config EVL_SCHED_QUOTA
	bool "Enable quota-based scheduling"
	default n
	help
	This option enables the SCHED_QUOTA scheduling policy in the
	EVL core.

	This policy enforces a limitation on the CPU consumption of
	threads over a globally defined period, known as the quota
	interval. This is done by pooling threads with common
	requirements in groups, and giving each group a share of the
	global period.

	If in doubt, say N.

config EVL_SCHED_TP
	bool "Enable temporal partitioning policy"
	default n
	help
	This option enables the SCHED_TP scheduling policy in the
	EVL core.

	This policy runs threads which execution is confined to
	dedicated time windows defined within a recurring time frame
	or global period. The ARINC653 standard describes such
	scheduling policy.

	If in doubt, say N.

config EVL_SCHED_TP_NR_PART
	int "Number of partitions"
	default 4
	range 1 1024
	depends on EVL_SCHED_TP
	help

	Define the maximum number of temporal partitions the TP
	scheduler may have to handle.

config EVL_TIMER_SCALABLE
	bool

config EVL_SCHED_SCALABLE
	bool

config EVL_HIGH_PERCPU_CONCURRENCY
	bool "Optimize for intra-core concurrency"
	select EVL_TIMER_SCALABLE
	select EVL_SCHED_SCALABLE
	default n
	help

	This option optimizes the implementation for applications with
	many real-time threads running concurrently on any given CPU
	core (typically when eight or more threads may be sharing a
	single CPU core). Currently, this option controls the
	following aspects of the implementation:

	- when enabled, a per-CPU multi-level priority queue is used
	  for ordering threads, which operates in constant-time
	  regardless of the number of concurrently runnable threads on
	  a CPU (which is normally significantly lower than the total
	  number of threads existing in the system). Otherwise, a
	  basic per-CPU linear list is used, which performs better
	  latency-wise for a small number of runnable threads per CPU.

	- when enabled, a per-CPU red-black tree is used for indexing
	  the software timers, which has good scalability when many
	  timers may be outstanding concurrently on any given
	  CPU. Otherwise, a basic per-CPU linear list is used, which
	  performs better latency-wise for a small number of running
	  threads per CPU.

	In short, if your application system runs only a few EVL
	threads per CPU core, then your best shot is at leaving this
	option turned off, in order to minimize the cache footprint of
	the queuing operations performed by the scheduler and timer
	subsystems. Otherwise, you may benefit from turning it on in
	order to have constant-time queuing operations for a large
	number of runnable threads and outstanding timers.

config EVL_RUNSTATS
	bool "Collect runtime statistics"
	default y
	help
	This option causes the EVL core to collect various
	per-thread runtime statistics, which are accessible via
	the /sys interface.

config EVL_NET
        bool "Out-of-band networking (EXPERIMENTAL)"
	default n
	select NET_OOB
	select NET_SCHED
	select NET_SCH_OOB
	select INET
	select VLAN_8021Q
	help
	This option enables preliminary networking support for EVL.

	CAUTION! This is WIP, experimental code with limited support
	at the moment, which is still subject to significant UAPI and
	kernel API changes all over the map.

menu "Fixed sizes and limits"

config EVL_COREMEM_SIZE
	int "Size of core memory heap (Kb)"
	default 2048
	help
	The core heap is used for various internal allocations by
	the EVL core. The size is expressed in Kilobytes.

config EVL_NR_THREADS
	int "Maximum number of threads"
	range 1 4096
	default 256
	help

	The maximum number of user-space threads attached to the
	EVL core which can run concurrently in the system.

config EVL_NR_MONITORS
	int "Maximum number of monitors"
	range 1 16384
	default 512
	help

	The monitor is the fundamental synchronization element
	implemented by the EVL core, which can underpin any other
	synchronization mechanism. This value gives the maximum number
	of monitors which can be alive concurrently in the system.

config EVL_NR_CLOCKS
	int "Maximum number of clocks"
	range 1 16384
	default 8
	help

	This value gives the maximum number of semaphores which can be
	alive concurrently in the system for user-space applications.

config EVL_NR_XBUFS
	int "Maximum number of x-buffers"
	range 1 16384
	default 16
	help

	This value gives the maximum number of x-buffers which can be
	alive concurrently in the system for user-space applications.

config EVL_NR_PROXIES
	int "Maximum number of proxies"
	range 1 16384
	default 64
	help

	This value gives the maximum number of file proxies which can
	be alive concurrently in the system for user-space
	applications.

config EVL_NR_OBSERVABLES
	int "Maximum number of observables"
	range 1 16384
	default 64
	help

	This value gives the maximum number of observable elements
	which can live concurrently in the EVL core. Observables
	enable the observer design pattern, in which any number of
	observer threads can be notified of updates to any number of
	observable subjects, in a loosely coupled fashion. An EVL
	thread is in and of itself an observable which can be
	monitored for events; observables attached to threads are not
	accounted for in this value.

endmenu

menu "Pre-calibrated latency"

config EVL_LATENCY_USER
	int "User scheduling latency (ns)"
	default 0
	help
	The user scheduling latency is the time between the
	termination of an interrupt handler and the execution of the
	first instruction of the application thread this
	handler resumes. A default value of 0 (recommended) will cause
	a pre-calibrated value to be used.

	If the latmus driver is enabled, this value will be used as the
	factory default when running "latmus --reset".

config EVL_LATENCY_KERNEL
	int "Intra-kernel scheduling latency (ns)"
	default 0
	help
	The intra-kernel scheduling latency is the time between the
	termination of an interrupt handler and the execution of the
	first instruction of the EVL kthread this handler
	resumes. A default value of 0 (recommended) will cause a
	pre-calibrated value to be used.

	Intra-kernel latency is usually significantly lower than user
	scheduling latency on MMU-enabled platforms, due to CPU cache
	latency.

	If the auto-tuner is enabled, this value will be used as the
	factory default when running "autotune --reset".

config EVL_LATENCY_IRQ
	int "Interrupt latency (ns)"
	default 0
	help
	The interrupt latency is the time between the occurrence of an
	IRQ and the first instruction of the interrupt handler which
	will service it. A default value of 0 (recommended) will cause
	a pre-calibrated value to be used.

	If the auto-tuner is enabled, this value will be used as the
	factory default when running "autotune --reset".

endmenu

menuconfig EVL_DEBUG
	bool "Debug support"
	help
	  When enabled, various debugging features can be switched
	  on. They can help to find problems in applications, drivers,
	  and the EVL core. EVL_DEBUG by itself does not have
	  any impact on the generated code.

if EVL_DEBUG

config EVL_DEBUG_CORE
	bool "Core runtime assertions"
	select DOVETAIL_DEBUG
	help
	  This option activates various assertions inside the EVL
	  core. This option has moderate overhead.

config EVL_DEBUG_MEMORY
	bool "Memory checks"
	help
	  This option enables memory debug checks inside the EVL
	  core. This option may induce significant overhead with large
	  heaps.

config EVL_DEBUG_WOLI
	bool "Default enable locking consistency checks"
	help
	  This option enables a set of consistency checks by default
	  for every new EVL thread for detecting wrong mutex-based
	  locking patterns (aka T_WOLI flag), which are otherwise
	  opted-in programmatically on a per-thread basis when this
	  option is off. This feature may induce overhead in some
	  cases, so you should enable it for debugging purposes only.

config EVL_DEBUG_NET
	bool "Network stack debugging"
	select DOVETAIL_DEBUG
	help
	  This option activates various assertions inside the EVL
	  network stack. This option has moderate overhead.

config EVL_WATCHDOG
	bool "Watchdog support"
	default y
	help
	  This option activates a watchdog aimed at detecting runaway
	  EVL threads. If enabled, the watchdog triggers after a given
	  period of uninterrupted out-of-band activity has elapsed
	  without in-band interaction in the meantime.

	  In such an event, the thread preempted by the watchdog timer
	  is kicked out the out-of-band context, and immediately
	  receives a SIGDEBUG signal from the kernel.

	  The timeout value of the watchdog can be set using the
	  EVL_WATCHDOG_TIMEOUT parameter.

config EVL_WATCHDOG_TIMEOUT
	depends on EVL_WATCHDOG
	int "Watchdog timeout"
	default 4
	range 1 60
	help
	  Watchdog timeout value (in seconds).

endif # EVL_DEBUG
